Rocky: Advocacy could have
several different definitions.
Years ago, I had
a vocational rehabilitation
counselor who once told me that
if I was not an effective self-advocate,
that people would treat me like a rug.
And indeed, that is true.
[music plays]
Rosanna: Advocacy is something
that's really important,
especially if you are DeafBlind
or visually impaired.
It is different in terms of advocacy
for the community and for yourself.
But they do both intertwine at some point.
And I do feel that
it is critical to become
your own advocate.
Alice: My definition of advocacy
is equally knowing what you want,
what your needs are, but also knowing how
to convey it to people
that may not know what that is
in a way that's not going
to get their back up.
And to help them be more willing
to provide such accommodations.
Rocky: The thing with
DeafBlindness is that it's a very
low incidence population.
And so we're a very small community,
we're very close knit.
And so when we're trying to go back out
into the hearing-sighted world
and people aren't always going to be
as understanding and in some cases
not as accommodating,
we have to know how to explain our needs
and those things that we may not need.
And so we have to advocate sometimes
in the blind community because
there are significant differences
between blindness and DeafBlindness.
Alice: I myself am the president of National
Federation DeafBlind Division, so...
advocating for the DeafBlind
within the National Federation
is part of what I do continuously.
And sometimes it's just making them aware
that we still use the
same blindness skills.
Mostly, some are different, but also
the essence of us is...
...different.
You know, it's not insurmountable.
It's just different.
And so that's part of what
my role is as president.
It's also my role to try and find
ways that I can be helpful
in my own state,
in my own community, at work.
So it's cooperating, it's inventing,
sometimes it's just giving guidance
to what mediums really work for us
and trying to keep eliciting
an open door for conversation.
Rosanna: It's interesting
that all of us agree that,
you know, on the definition of advocacy
as knowing who you are,
knowing your skills,
knowing what you want to do,
and, you know, advocating for
how are you going to do it.
And I really agree
with what Alice has said
and Rocky as well.
In being an active member of the American
Council of the Blind as well,
a lot of the work that I do
is very similar to what Alice does
And one of the things that I was very much
involved in was the right to vote.
And when I say
the right to vote, it's not that
blind people
didn't have the right to vote,
but they didn't have the accessibility
to vote on their own.
Getting that to the point where
a DeafBlind person
or visually impaired person
could walk up to a machine
and cast their vote privately.
And that's what advocacy
is really all about.
What Rocky said is really true.
It's a very small type of community,
but that community needs to stick together
and work together because that community
is what supports each other
to do their best and
put their best foot forward.
[music plays]
Rocky: It is still possible for
people with disabilities and
in the DeafBlind community to be isolated.
That can happen through a lack of access
to communication,
through a lack of access to technology.
And I think what happens
a lot of times is when you create
the opportunities and the right attitudes
about advocacy and about DeafBlindness,
that will allow the DeafBlind community
to be rescued from the closet,
so to speak, you
see that they will blossom.
You see, once they're integrated,
I mean...
the research on this too, has been,
you know, overwhelmingly stated
that when you integrate
people with disabilities
into the regular,
the broader society,
they do a lot better,
their self-image
and self-esteem is improved.
And I can say for myself
that that's definitely the case.
And I think that many other people
who are DeafBlind can say the same thing.
So that's also a very important point.
We have to get ourselves integrated
into the society as much as possible.
Alice: And some of that is just being open
to the fact that we have the right to be.
You get the perception that it's
not our place to speak for ourselves.
But from where I sit, it's not necessarily
the place of sighted
people always to be our voice
because they're not living our experience.
I like that they help me.
I like that they collaborate,
but like some of the things
that happen in the medical field,
if they don't know that we have a mind
and that we actually do
know what our bodies are doing
and that we are fully aware of
some illness or whatever
that they're continuing to ignore,
we still have problems.
And I have found that
that in the medical realm especially
is very problematic, especially
if you don't have somebody else
that you can drag in
to be your voice and say,
“Listen to her, she
knows what she's saying.”
Because if you come into my world,
I'm gladly opening me to you, and
it doesn't feel that way the other way around.
So you always feel
like somehow you're sliding
through the back door to get what you need
and in this day and age,
it’s real tough to have to endure.
[music ends]